sight, hearing, taste, touch, smell.
Well, as you know, those are the five primary senses
with which the Creator has endowed us.
But now, which one of these five is perhaps
the closedliest related to are being able to gain
the prize of everlasting life?
Well, is it not hearing?
It's interesting throughout history,
the churches of Baben the Great have put the main emphasis
not on hearing, but on seeing, or perhaps touching,
seeing an image of their God, maybe touching
or kissing that image.
But Jehovah has always put the emphasis on hearing.
Here, O Israel, give ear and listen.
With commanding calls such as this,
the Israelites were summoned together
to hear Jehovah's words read and explained.
Well, similarly, today, we have many opportunities
to hear Jehovah's words read and explain.
But now, here's a question.
Is it sufficient that we just hear the sounds of Jehovah's words?
Well, you know, that's not sufficient.
I hear an experience that illustrates this.
Many years ago, I was working in service with a brother.
It was his turn to talk.
He was very nervous.
The lady came to the door.
He said, how are you?
She said, not very good.
He said, that's good.
And he proceeded with his presentation.
Well, he heard sounds coming out of her mouth,
but he didn't hear so as to perceive what was said.
Well, obviously, Jehovah expects us to do
a whole lot better than that
when it comes to hearing his words.
In Matthew 13, 16, today's scripture text,
Jesus committed his disciples by saying,
happy are your ears because they hear.
Now, he wasn't committing them
for just hearing sounds coming out of his mouth,
but he was committing them because they heard
with understanding, they grasped the meaning,
and then they were in position to make application
of what they had heard.
Well, do we want Jehovah and Jesus
to pronounce our ears happy?
Do we want figuratively happy ears?
We do, don't we?
Well, then we must listen like those disciples in a way
we grasp the meaning and are in position to make application.
Open up to Mark chapter four, please.
And here's an interesting scripture in this vein.
I notice the words of Jesus,
Mark chapter four beginning in verse 23.
He said, whoever has ears to listen,
let him listen.
He further said to them, pay attention to what you are hearing.
I notice this with a measure that you are measuring out,
you will have it measured out to you.
Yes, you will have more added to you.
So notice, Jesus was saying that if you measure out
little interest in attention, don't expect to gain much.
In contrast, if you measure out your full attention
and interest to what I am saying,
then I will give you generously,
even beyond your expectations.
Well, it works the same way today, doesn't it?
We actually reap enlightenment in direct proportion
to how much interest and attention we measure out.
I go to Hebrews chapter two.
Here's another scripture.
Very familiar scripture in this regard.
Hebrews chapter two, and notice we're not to just
pay casual attention or even usual attention,
but notice how it's worded.
Hebrews two verse one, that is why it is necessary
for us to pay more than the usual attention
to the things we have heard so that we never drift away.
So it's absolutely required if we're not going to drift away
from Jehovah or the truth,
we've got to pay more than the usual attention.
Now let's illustrate this point.
I like to imagine that you're trapped in a building
that is engulfed in fire.
A fireman makes his way to you.
And he says, only have time to tell you this once.
I've got to go help other people, but there's only one way
to escape.
You've got to go down this stairs very quickly.
When you get to the bottom, drop down on your stomach
and begin crawling.
You have to stay within three feet of the floor
because above that, there are poisonous gases.
A crawl though to the right.
And you will see a small hallway, a narrow hallway.
Crawl through that hallway.
When you get to the end, you'll be in the lobby, stand up,
turn left, run off the exit doors.
Now, while those instructions were being given,
would you allow your mind to wander?
Would you be thinking, I wonder what I'll have for supper
tonight?
When would I be on TV?
No, your attention would be riveted,
because one misdetail could cost you your life.
And even after the fireman left, you probably
would still hear ringing in your ears his words
as you reviewed them in your mind, say, down the stairs,
crawl through the hallway, go out the left of the lobby
through the exit doors.
You'd be reviewing that information.
With the idea, you are truly going to make application.
Well, that's how we want to listen.
And if you think about it, we're in a similar situation,
aren't we?
Satan's world is on fire around us.
And very soon, it's going to totally burn up.
But Jehovah is giving us escape instructions.
In fact, in 2 Peter 312 about this system,
it says that it's going to be destroyed in flames
and the elements will melt in the intense heat.
But we want to survive.
We don't even slightly want to be like the idols mentioned
in Psalm 115, verse 6, who have ears, but they don't hear.
Or like the cobra mentioned in Psalm 584
that stops up its ears and refuses
to hear the voice of the charmer.
Or like the disobedient Israelites described in Isaiah 6.10
as having unresponsive ears.
Or those disobedient Israelites are described
in Jeremiah 6.10 in the literal Hebrew
as having uncircumcized ears.
We don't even want to be like the Hebrew Christians
who are described in Hebrews chapter 5, verse 11
as being dull in their hearing.
We want to do our very best to uncover our ear.
Now that's an interesting expression in the literal Hebrew
in Job 36, verse 10.
And apparently it comes from the fact
that the orientals were a headdress.
But to hear more clearly, they would partially remove
that headdress and uncover the ear.
Well, we want to do that ourselves.
We want to incline our ear, Psalm 78, verse 1,
awaken our ear, open our ear, give ear
as different verses in Isaiah say.
And all of that is pay attention with the view
of making application of what we have heard.
Now if we do this, use our sense of hearing wisely.
As we've discussed, then we'll be in position to survive
the cataclysmic end of this system of things.
As recorded at second Kings 21, verse 12,
Jehovah said, here I am bringing such a disaster
on Jerusalem and Judah that it will make both ears
of anyone who hears about it, tingle.
Well, it's true, during the Great Tribulation,
people of this world, when they hear
about the calamitous events of the Great Tribulation,
undoubtedly both of their ears,
figuratively, figuratively for sure,
but perhaps even literally, will tingle.
But the ears of Jehovah's people will continue
incline toward Jehovah's directions
that will come at that time, such as found at Isaiah 26,
verse 20, where Jehovah will say, go, my people,
enter your inner rooms and shut your doors behind you,
hide yourself for a brief moment
until the wrath has passed by.
And as Jesus declared the ears of his disciples happy,
Jehovah in Jesus will be able to declare
the ears of the surviving great crowd happy.
They will say to them, a happy are your ears
because they hear.